In the original deployment from the last workshop, the password for accessing the Jupyter notebook was generated locally and included in a config map which was then mounted into the Jupyter notebook container. With the way that this was done, to change the password you would need to update the config map and restart the Jupyter notebook container.

With a custom operator being used a different approach is needed. Instead of creating a config map with the ``jupyter_server_config.json`` file embedded in it, and mounting it into the container, a startup script is instead used to generate the file when the container is started.

To view this startup script as embedded in the config map, run:

```execute
kubectl get configmap/notebook -o json | jq -r '.data["setup-environment.sh"]'
```

The output should be similar to:

```
#!/bin/bash
conda init

source $HOME/.bashrc

if [ ! -f $HOME/.condarc ]; then
    cat > $HOME/.condarc << EOF
envs_dirs:
  - $HOME/.conda/envs
EOF
fi

if [ -d $HOME/.conda/envs/workspace ]; then
    echo "Activate virtual environment 'workspace'."
    conda activate workspace
fi

if [ ! -f $HOME/.jupyter/jupyter_server_config.json ]; then
    mkdir -p $HOME/.jupyter
    cat > $HOME/.jupyter/jupyter_server_config.json << 'EOF'
{
    "IdentityProvider": {
        "hashed_password": "argon2:$argon2id$v=19$m=10240,t=10,p=8$nASioQSh/HSW9xH+e4cJxQ$MIDOSN4q1E8kcXohx6DlnllST0tFa223YVnm8bfpn6o"
    }
}
EOF
fi
```

This script is mounted into the container so that it appears at the location:

```
/usr/local/bin/before-notebook.d/setup-environment.sh
```

The ``before-notebook.d`` directory is special to the script that starts the Jupyter notebook, and any script files in the directory will be run and the environment incorporated into that of the startup script so it is inherited by the Jupyter notebook. Using this way of hooking into the startup mechanism means it isn't necessary to override the command, or the arguments to the command, used when starting the container.

The ``setup-environment.sh`` script does a few different things, but what we want to focus on first is that part dealing with setting up access controls.

```
if [ ! -f $HOME/.jupyter/jupyter_server_config.json ]; then
    mkdir -p $HOME/.jupyter
    cat > $HOME/.jupyter/jupyter_server_config.json << 'EOF'
{
    "IdentityProvider": {
        "hashed_password": "argon2:$argon2id$v=19$m=10240,t=10,p=8$nASioQSh/HSW9xH+e4cJxQ$MIDOSN4q1E8kcXohx6DlnllST0tFa223YVnm8bfpn6o"
    }
}
EOF
fi
```

What this does is if the ``jupyter_server_config.json`` file doesn't already exist, it will be created. The hash value for the password, will be that corresponding to the password viewable when getting details of the custom resource. The actual value of the hash has been generated by the operator and incorporated into the script when the config map was created.

Because the config file isn't updated if it already exists, it means that this mechanism is only used to set the initial password. If you are deploying the Jupyter notebook with persistent storage attached, you can use the:

```copy
jupyter server password
```

command from a terminal within the Jupyter notebook web interface to change the password. You can then shutdown the Jupyter notebook from the web interface causing it to be restarted. When subsequently loading up the Jupyter notebook, logout if necessary, then login again, and the new password will apply.

Note that in shutting down and restarting the Jupyter notebook the browser window or tab may vanish so you will need to access the URL for the Jupyter notebook instance again.

```dashboard:open-url
url: http://notebook-{{session_namespace}}.{{ingress_domain}}
```

This mechanism thus allows a user to change the password if they desire from the Jupyter notebook web interface and it is not necessary to update the config map. The user will need to remember the password though, since that recorded in the custom resource will no longer be valid. If forgotten, a cluster admin could access the container and run ``jupyter server password`` to set a temporary password so the user could gain access once more, with the user then setting the password themselves to something only they know.
